
    Computer Science is different from many other fields in a few ways.  The most important is the power it gives us.  Since the dawn of time, man has only been set apart from his rivals: the rats, chimpanzees, and Neanderthals by power.  Where does this power come from?  It does not come from superior speed, strength, or stealth.  It comes from 1) our brains and 2) our social abilities

    Consider the cheetah.  Cheetahs are much faster than humans, and almost certainly stronger.  This gives them power.  They can eat us.  But humans stumbled upon a different type of power than the cheetah had: language.  Why is language so powerful?  Because we are so weak, we could not outrun or fight the cheetah directly.  But language gave us the power to accidentally outsmart the cheetah and then tell all our friends how to outsmart the cheetah as well.
    After we gained language, some people stumbled upon etching.  Etching let us talk to people a) many millennia in the future and b) very very far away.  But power is not nearly as powerful if only the powerful have it.  Etching was expensive, so only the elites could afford to etch.  When Gutenberg came along many millennia after humans learned to etch, his accidental invention of the printing press made writing cheap.  Now you could talk to thousands, even millions of people at once.  And you could do this even if you were fairly poor.
    Skip forward a few more millennia and we see Thomas Edison powering our homes and Henry Ford driving us around.  The telegraph made it even easier to talk to strangers than ever before.  But a funny thing is happening here; acceleration.  How long ago did we accidentally stumble upon talking?  How much closer to today did we stumble on writing?  How much closer to today was the printing press than it was to the first writing?  How much closer to today was the telegraph than it was to the printing press?  I think you get the point.
    Add to the history of communications the typewriter, the IBM mainframe, the PC, the internet, and the iPhone.  These, unfortunately, don't exactly follow the mathematical exponential "power law" as nicely, but the point is things have gotten so much better so much faster in the past century than in the rest of human history combined.
    And what is the "goodness" on the y axis?  Most people think it's money, but money is really a vessel for power.  Blood carries oxygen throughout the body; so money carries power throughout the world.  If you are powerless, you cannot be good.  There's a good reason people don't worship the homeless, however nice or smart they may be.  The masses lack power, so they become enslaved, bitter, and hopeless.  It's not intrinsic; some poor people are smarter than me.  There's gotta be at least one really poor person who's smarter than Bill Gates, Steven Hawking, and Terence Tao.  But the poor people can't change the world.  In the worst cases, they can't even have clean water on their own: very sad.
    But you all are lucky.  You all are lucky because you have the chance to spend a single day at one of the most prestigious, powerful universities in the world studying power.  Computers are power.  And not only are computers power, but I am going to show you the most powerful computer LANGUAGE of them all.  (see what I did there?  Tying it all together)

    [talk about how computers are powerful because they are brainlessly obedient]

    [talk about how Arc, macros, and functional programming are the best because it's simplest and shortest]
    [fibonacci, big-O runtime, HashTables?  (we don't have loads and loads of time)]



